Within the five elements of an activity-based model described above, there exists a continuum of specific implementation that may enable more or less illumination and understanding of a proposed policy.

Commonly, ABMs mimic how individuals (or **agents**) build and execute decisions. The most basic agent, which is common to all models, is the person. Such person-agents are often described with attributes such as age, gender, race, and work status. Even with a crude representation of independent persons, a categorically different understanding of the impacts of urban policy proposals is possible relative to aggregate demand or mean-value models. Additional attributes may be added to increase diversity of representation or aid analysis. The opportunity exists to add detailed information for specific analyses such as disability, possession of a driver license, or even attitudinal preferences. Extending the relationships between these person-agents through additional decision-making agents such as households, neighborhoods, jobs, social organizations, firms, and even mobility operators – each with their own array of attributes, behaviors, and goals – can enable more in-depth or informative analysis.

Another continuum exists for the **activities** in which the agents participate, as well as their locations and times. At its most basic level, modeling individuals participating in at-home, work, school, and other activities provides a framework for understanding basic but important questions of time use, engagement with employment and education, and the wider economy. Shopping activities could be left as simply shopping activities, or disaggregated into grocery, clothing, white goods, and other kinds of shopping. Further disaggregation of these activity types into full- and part-time work periods, escorting household members to other activities, various types of recreational activity, etc. can more realistically represent the variety of human behaviors.

Activity and agent **locations** might be described using zone systems from traditional spatial models, smaller micro-zones, or even by specific coordinates in space. There is also a continuum in the extent to which the locations are characterised, ranging from attributes such as geographical location (zone id, centrality, point coordinates etc) to the variety of goods and services available at the location. Activities interact with locations in important ways; while many activities must occur at specific locations (e.g. home and work activities), some could occur at any location with appropriate services (a shopping activity at a set of suitable stores), and others might occur anywhere (digital activities).

**Times** may be represented as a series of time periods (morning peak, mid-day, etc. ) or as a continuous timeline, and provides a framework for determining the timing and duration of agents’ activities over a day, week, month or even a year. Agents ought not participate in multiple activities at multiple locations simultaneously.

The desired specificity in all of these elements should reflect the desired sensitivity of the policies under study and the data availability. Increased sensitivity in representation in turn enables more sensitive policy analysis on a wide range of potential issues. At the same time, it should be stressed that even the most basic activity-based models – those with the most rudimentary concepts of agents, activities, locations, and time – can generate a categorically different understanding of the demand for **infrastructure networks** than the aggregate demand models of previous eras. They enable the person agents to respond to changes in infrastructure networks, associated resources and policies in a method that can be intuitively described and tested, rather than simply measured as an aggregate change. Through the following examples, we illustrate the value of this distinction in several sectors.
